Sustainability 
Report
March 2025
Headlam Group Plc
Company number: 00460129
Sustainable by design
As we accelerate the delivery of our strategy, we are ensuring 
that ESG is a key consideration in the design of our business.
Our first example of this has been the take-back trial we 
have successfully completed at our Northampton site. The 
trial has taught us about the types of materials we are likely 
to receive, how best to work with our waste management 
provider and how valuable this service is to our customers. 
We’ll be extending this trial in 2025 and I am confident that 
if this extended trial is a success we will be able to scale up a 
take-back scheme with national geographic reach through 
our Trade Counter network, thus enabling our customers to 
recycle with ease. 
We have also collaborated with several of our suppliers to 
create our Trainee Flooring Fitter programme in which we 
have funded four trainee fitters through a six-month training 
programme provided by our suppliers. We have created 
this programme to help increase this valuable skill set in the 
market for the long term sustainability of the industry and 
we envisage this programme growing over time. At the end 
of the programme we will work with our customers to place 
trainees in roles in their businesses.
As you will see from this report there have been many 
other achievements this year including setting our 
Scope 3 near term and long term targets, improving our 
waste management processes, improving our colleague 
engagement result by 5ppts, supporting our colleagues’ 
development and improving our governance and controls. 
I truly believe that this has been achieved because our ESG 
plans are integral to our business strategy.
Chris Payne,
CEO
	“ As a distributor, to be 
truly sustainable takes a 
coordinated effort across 
the flooring industry and 
I am proud to say we 
have had successes in 
demonstrating our ability 
to do this to improve 
the sustainability of 
our environment and 
communities this year.”
01
SUSTAINABILITY AT HEADLAM
E
 
Environmental
S
 
Social
G
 
Governance
Priorities
a.	 Product design
b.	 Service design
c.	 Building design 
Why we have chosen them
a.	 To meet the long-term 
ambition of creating a 
circular product cycle we 
must act now to engineer 
products to use more 
recycled material and be 
recyclable at end of life
b.	 Creating a scalable take-
back scheme enhances our 
customer offer and supports 
sustainability
c.	 As we open new sites 
(Rayleigh and Trade 
Counters) we should 
continuously improve their 
energy efficiency and 
minimise carbon emissions
Progress made
a.	 Engaged with several key 
suppliers to create joint 
product development plans. 
Working as part of Carpets 
Recycling UK to develop 
Sustainability Pledge across 
the industry
b.	 Take-back scheme 
successfully trialled in 
Northampton Trade Counter
c.	 Facilities planners fully 
engaged in environmental 
planning as part of site 
development which 
incorporates waste, energy 
efficiency, biodiversity etc
Outlook
a.	 Educate the central buying 
team, under the leadership 
of the new Chief Buying 
Officer, to develop more 
sustainable products
b.	 Extend the take-back trial to 
a further four sites
c.	 Work with operations and 
property teams to create 
building blueprint for 
optimum sustainability
Priorities
a.	 Engagement plans to create 
the right environment to 
attract and retain the best 
colleagues
b.	 Community plans to support 
the sustainability of local 
communities and the 
industry
Why we have chosen them
a.	 We need to attract and 
retain colleagues with 
the right skills, knowledge 
and expertise. We truly 
believe that engaged and 
motivated colleagues 
provide the best service and 
apply their knowledge and 
expertise to their fullest
b.	 A lack of trained flooring 
fitters is an industry wide 
challenge, and by working 
across our supply chain 
we can help to grow this 
valuable resource whilst 
also providing employment 
and training for our local 
communities who need it
Progress made
a.	 Colleague engagement 
increased by 5% year on 
year, especially in areas of 
investment e.g. leadership 
training
b.	 Trial of fitter training 
programme successfully 
conducted
Outlook
a.	 Maintain progress on 
engagement throughout 
the implementation of 
further business changes 
focusing on improving 
processes, colleagues feeling 
heard and improved local 
communication
b.	 Extend fitter training 
programme to two cohorts
Priorities
a.	 Buying process review 
(supplier and product 
selection)
b.	 Systems and reporting 
requirements
Why we have chosen them
a.	 Fully centralised UK 
Distribution buying and 
supply chain teams enable 
consistent group processes. 
Scope 3 targets now set 
enabling focused planning
b.	 The new ERP implementation 
programme means we will 
be reviewing several systems 
across the business and 
have the opportunity to 
influence the data that will 
be collected
Progress made
a.	 ESG standards and 
assurances form part of the 
new product introduction 
process for own brand 
products. Scope 3 targets 
have been set and agreed
b.	 ESG Director has contributed 
to the appropriate ERP 
requirements workshops
Outlook
a.	 Scope 3 actions plans 
defined in 2025, continue 
to inform and educate 
buying and supply teams on 
responsible sourcing best 
practices
b.	 Review and develop 
ESG data and reporting 
capability to create 
harmonised ESG dashboard 
and confirm requirements for 
new ERP Programme
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
02
Sustainability Report
Key achievements 
in 2024:
•	
Scope 1,2 & 3 targets aligned 
and set to be net zero 
by 2040
•	
46% reduction of Scope 1 and 
2 against a 2019 baseline
•	
Waste monitoring and 
reporting now implemented 
in all major distribution 
centres
•	
Introduced our first recycling 
centre service for our trade 
counter customers
•	
Partnership with waste 
management & recyclers to 
ensure end of life material is 
regenerated
•	
EV Salary sacrifice scheme 
available to all colleagues 
•	
ISO 14001 certification 
achieved in our national 
distribution centres
We continue to be committed to protecting the planet 
and aim for our emissions to be net zero by 2040.
Our focus is on developing products that can be 
renewed, repurposed and easily recycled for reuse in the 
products we supply. We are creating a supply chain that 
is circular and includes taking responsibility for recovering 
as much material as we place onto the market. 
Reducing our Carbon Emissions
We continued throughout 2024 to deliver against our carbon reduction 
target timeline and have now set our target and timescale for Scope 3. The 
Company will follow a ‘true’ Net Zero strategy whereby it will focus on actual 
decarbonisation in achieving these targets and only consider offsetting 
actions for the residual 10%. We will continue to use a science-based 
approach and have aligned our Scope 1 & 2 target to our Scope 3 timescales. 
We will continue to measure Scope 1 & 2 against a 2019 baseline and Scope 3 
against a 2023 baseline. 
We have now set an interim target for Scope 3 whilst Scope 1 & 2 will remain 
in line with our previously published commitment to achieve a 46% reduction 
by 2030. 
Our focus for 2025 will be on product development following our sustainable 
by design principles see ESG Priorities for 2025, non-commercial fleet, 
promoting and educating colleagues on good energy behaviours. 
Transport Efficiencies
In 2023 we invested in Webfleet, a vehicle telematics system which enables 
us to focus on several key metrics around driver behaviours, safety and 
efficiencies. We have since seen a 23% reduction in driving events, (for 
example heavy braking). We have also seen significant fuel savings gained 
through reduced idling.
Our fuel efficiency in miles per gallon (mpg) has increased by 5% since 
introducing Webfleet and we have reduced the number of routes we operate 
through smarter planning by 5% and increased the utilisation of our fleet. 
Energy Intensity
In the last 2 years we have invested in solar panels across 12 of our distribution 
centres with the final installation taking place in Coleshill in 2024. They are now 
generating an average of 49%1 of their consumption requirements. In addition, 
the facilities which operate under solar have seen on average 32.5% reduction 
in energy costs against the comparative periods in 2023.
Gas usage has also dropped by 15% across the Headlam Group operation 
as we change our behaviours and reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. We will 
continue to review ways to further reduce our consumption and invest in 
renewable energy solutions whenever possible. 
E
 
Environmental
1	
Data used May 24 to Dec 24 compared to same period in 2023, as Solar operational from 
May 2024.
03
ENVIRONMENTAL
UK and Continental Europe 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
2024 Full Year Data
91%
9%
 Scope 1: 91% (14.0ktCO2e)
 Scope 2: 9% (1.6ktCO2e)
Net Zero Emissions Timeline
Key Achievements and Targets
2023
Solar panels installed across 11 of our 13 largest sites
Achieved ISO 14001 environmental certification at key sites
Over 85% of UK non-commercial fleet electric/low emission
Good Energy and Recycling Behaviours workshops held at  
11 of our largest sites
Continued trailing of electric/low emission commercial vehicles
Transport integration completed
2024
Use telematics to improve driver behaviours resulting in  
emissions reductions
Review waste management across UK distribution sites in order  
to implement best practice, reduce waste and set targets
Scope 3 strategy and targets to be developed
Continued trial of low emission commercial fleet vehicles
Trial of Trade Counter take-back and recycling scheme in 
Northampton
Launched EV salary sacrifice scheme
2025
Scope 3 targets introduced
Carbon workshops commenced with buying team. Further  
planned through 2025
2030
Interim target of 46% reduction against 2019 (Scope 1 and 2)
Roll-out of low carbon commercial vehicles
Potential heating electrification to reduce gas consumption
2032
Interim target of 42% reduction of Scope 3 emissions against  
2023 baseline
2040
Net Zero emissions target (Scope 1, 2 and 3)
Ongoing trialling and introduction of electric/low carbon commercial vehicles
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
04
Sustainability Report
Sustainable Product Development
Sustainable
by design
Sales
Takeback/
Recovery
Distribution
Material
Processing
Manufacturing
Recycled
material
In 2024 we focused our attention on understanding how sustainable the full 
product lifecycle is and how this contributes to our Sustainable by Design 
programme. 
We have invested in trials to manage products at the end of their life, providing 
a facility that takes them back. Through partnerships with recyclers and 
manufacturers, we ensure that as much material as we recover through our 
recycling centres is processed back into raw materials that can be used again and 
again in as many of our products as possible.
Our Florprotec brand offers a collection service at end of life, and we are working 
with a recycler and the manufacturer to ensure this material is re-used in new 
Florprotec product.
We are also working with major carpet and vinyl flooring manufacturers in the 
UK and Europe designing new broadloom and vinyl ranges that can be easily 
recycled, removing the reliance on specialist recyclers and improving the quality of 
recycled material.
Take-back Scheme
We stated in our 2023 report that we would introduce a full take-back and 
recycling scheme and in May 2024 we launched this facility to our Mercado 
Northampton trade counter customers.
During the trial this service has been provided free to our customers to encourage 
them to bring back uplifted flooring (post-consumer waste), off cuts (post 
industrial waste), underlay, vinyl, LVT, laminate, packaging (plastics & cardboard) 
and general waste.
Customers using the facility have welcomed the recycling centre and are regularly 
using it. Having the ability to drop any off cuts or uplifted material from the previous 
job, without having to use additional waste disposal facilities or services, saves them 
both time and money and knowing that the waste material is being recycled.
Scope 3 Emissions 
2024 Full Year Data
 Purchased goods and 
services 
80.2% (653,926 ktCO2e)
 Capital goods 
0.5% (3,848 ktCO2e)
 Fuel-related Emissions 
0.5% (4,133 ktCO2e)
 Upstream Transportation  
and Distribution 0.4%  
(3,215 ktCO2e)
 Waste Generated in 
Operations 0.1% (949 ktCO2e)
 
 Business Travel 
0.4% (351 ktCO2e)
 Employee Commuting 
0.3% (2,204 ktCO2e)
 End-of-life treatment of 
sold product 15.9% (129,949 
ktCO2e)
Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 
Emissions: 815,119 tCO2e 
2024 Full Year Data
 Scope 1 
1.9% (15,339 ktCO2e)
 Scope 2 (location-based) 
0.1% (1,205 ktCO2e)
 Scope 3 
98.0% (798,876 ktCO2e)
E
 
Environmental
05
ENVIRONMENTAL
CONTINUED
Partnerships 
Biffa provide the bulkers and skips and routinely collect 
and sort the materials into raw material component types; 
for example, on broadloom carpet, by using chemical 
analysers they sort into polypropylene, polyester, nylon, 
wool and mixed materials.
Once sorted, the polypropylene broadloom carpet will 
be sent to a specialist recycler, who process and recycle 
back to polypropylene pellets and make it available to the 
industry to produce new products.
We also promote and work with Recofloor who facilitate 
the collection of Vinyl and LVT on behalf of Polyfloor 
and Altro.
This is the first flooring recycling centre in the UK and in the 
first six months we collected, processed and recycled over 
135 tonnes of material. 
Water
The Company is not a large consumer of water, which is 
primarily used for cleaning its commercial vehicles, and 
continues to engage in limiting usage whenever possible. 
Waste
In 2024, we diverted 86.5% of our operational waste 
from landfill of which we have recycled 15% from our UK 
Distribution Centres. 
We have introduced recycling bins into our largest 
distribution centres and encourage all colleagues to 
reduce waste and recycle wherever possible. We continue 
to look for alternative solutions for repurposing stock that 
is discontinued or end of roll, many of which are sent to our 
Melrose Interiors business who transform them into rugs. 
Where product cannot be repurposed it will be recycled 
either through our manufacturers or through recycling 
facilities specialising in textile or resilient flooring.
The Group continues to use the most sustainable sources 
for packaging ensuring the products’ integrity remains 
during transit to avoid damage and unnecessary waste.
We continue encourage all our businesses to recover and 
reuse poles and pallets wherever possible. All packaging 
that cannot be reused is recycled through our waste 
management partners.
Through our Mercado recycling centre in Northampton, 
we encourage customers to recycle all packaging through 
our facility and c.8% of material disposed of is derived 
from packaging. 
Raw Materials
The Headlam Group recognises we rely on natural raw 
materials to produce our products and always look to use 
the most sustainable solutions available in a responsible 
way. Through our Sustainable by Design programme, we 
look at renewable materials first and incorporate these 
wherever possible, many of which can be found in our 
flagship brand, Crucial Trading.
We ensure all timber used is from verified and legal sources 
and have due diligence systems in place and by working 
with recognised specialist third party organisations such 
as Track Record Global who ensure all our imported timber 
supply chains are traced to source.
Where non-renewable raw materials are used, we 
encourage the inclusion of recycled materials and are 
developing our products to be easier and more recyclable 
at end of life. 
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
06
Sustainability Report
Key achievements 
in 2024:
•	
Colleague Engagement 
score in September 
2024 was 72%, an 
improvement of 5ppts 
year on year and 1ppt 
behind the industry 
benchmark
•	
Reduction in RIDDORs by 
30% year on year
•	
Safety culture training 
has been attended by all 
leaders
•	
1,300 colleagues have 
accessed online learning 
through our new 
learning portal and over 
780 colleagues have 
attended face-to-face 
training on leadership, 
safety or sales
•	
Sales through Service 
Apprenticeship launched 
in Trade Counters
•	
New HR and payroll 
system implemented 
improving colleague 
visibility of their 
employee file and 
rewards
•	
Gender pay gap 
reduced year on year
•	
Strategic approach to 
community support 
taken in Leeds 
through Trainee Fitter 
programme delivered 
to help bridge the skills 
gap in the industry and 
improve employability in 
the area
Making Headlam a great place to work with a positive 
impact on communities
Our Colleagues
Across the UK, France and the Netherlands Headlam Group Plc employs c.2,330 
people, with 2,075 of those based in the UK. Colleagues are at the heart of our 
business, and are our greatest asset. We continually focus on making Headlam a 
great place to work, and ensure colleagues share in the Group’s long-term success.
Whether our colleagues work in our warehouses, are part of the transport team, 
represent us in sales and trade counters, support our customers in our sales offices 
or help the business behind the scenes in our support functions, we have a range of 
working arrangements available to attract and retain colleagues who live our values:
Keep each other 
safe and well, 
always
Lead by example, 
we are all leaders
Work together,  
with everyone
Act sustainably, 
use less, waste 
less, give back
Keep improving,  
everywhere
Get it done,  
brilliantly
And always, do the right thing
The ways of working which underpin these values and demonstrate our 
commitment to fostering a culture of integrity can be found in our Colleague 
Code of Ethics Policy and other workplace policies, many of which are published 
on our corporate website. Our Colleague Code of Ethics, which we refer to as The 
Headlam Way covers a range of topics including safety, behaviours towards each 
other, conflicts of interest, sustainability, bribery and corruption, fair competition, 
confidentiality and other topics all intended to ensure that we work together, 
serve our customers, do business with our suppliers, support our local communities 
and maintain a sustainable business for our shareholders. It also refers to and 
complements our Speak Up policy which ensures that our colleagues know how 
to confidentially raise whistleblowing concerns which are seen directly by our 
Audit Committee Chair. All new colleagues at Headlam have the opportunity 
to familiarise themselves with these policies as part of their online induction 
and important changes and updates are communicated through our monthly 
leadership call and our manager briefings.
In the UK Headlam employs salaried colleagues exclusively and we do not 
employ anyone on a zero-hour contract. Our colleagues are entitled to several 
employment benefits and rights from day one of employment including company 
sick pay and the right to request flexible working, with just over 5% of colleagues 
having flexible working patterns in place. In 2024 most of our colleagues were 
permanent workers with temporary workers making up approx. 0.64% of the 
workforce on average across the year. Temporary workers are primarily engaged 
to manage peaks in work, cover long term absences or support through period of 
transition during business change projects. 
S
 
Social
07
SOCIAL
We have a number of careers available to our colleagues 
and we have brought these to life in 2024 with a series 
of articles about our colleagues who have progressed 
through the business. We strongly believe that this, 
coupled with our colleagues’ commitment to support our 
customers and each other is why we have tenured service 
at Headlam.
Length of service
0-3 mths
10%
5+ yrs
44%
2-5 yrs
21%
3 mths-2 yrs
25%
Our long serving colleagues, with their in-depth 
knowledge of our customers, services, products, processes 
and systems are a foundation of our success and so 
we continually focus on ways to retain them and you 
can read more about this in the Reward, Learning and 
Development, Colleague Engagement and Community 
sections of this report. Uncontrolled labour turnover is 
one of our 3 key People KPIs, along with attendance and 
engagement, and throughout 2024 we have implemented 
actions to improve all three. 
We also believe that to achieve our strategic ambitions 
we also need to diversify the skills and experience of our 
workforce through the targeted recruitment of talent. 
We have brought in expertise from other industries to 
strengthen our knowledge base, have improved our ability 
to talent bank core skills, which are in high demand across 
our industry, and have worked with recruitment sites and 
agencies to ensure that candidates have a much better 
overview of our business and the exciting opportunities 
available to them. Improving our attraction and selection 
methods will be a key priority for us in 2025 as we invest 
in a new careers website and applicant tracking system 
to give us greater insight into who we are attracting and 
improve our processes to provide an excellent candidate 
experience whether the candidate is internal or external.
Keeping each other safe and well, every day
2024 has seen a change in the National Safety Team 
structure to ensure we deliver an effective support to the 
group. We have seen a reduction of over 30% from 2023 
in RIDDOR’s reported as set out in the table on the right 
hand side.
There has been a real focus this year on training 
throughout the group including ‘accident Investigation’ 
‘IOSH Leading Safely’ Say it See it’ and ‘Felt’ Training.
We maintained our ISO 45001 standards throughout 2024 
with successful audits of four of our key sites.
We have seen a 3% increase in engagement survey results 
in relation to colleague’s thoughts on how safe they feel in 
the workplace. 
The RIDDOR incident frequency rate for every 1,000,000 
was 4.12 in 2024 against the recommendation from HSE 
of 3.77.
Type of RIDDOR Incident
2024
2023
Slip, trips and fall
2
9
Struck by moving vehicle
3
6
Contact with machinery
2
0
Hit by moving/falling, flying object
1
0
Handling, lifting, Carrying
4
2
Fall from height
3
3
Other
2
5
Total
17
25
2025 will see us introduce a Safety Culture platform 
throughout the group that standardise how we 
manage our safety processes. This will act as a fantastic 
engagement tool for all colleagues to contribute to a 
safer working environment for all. 
Supporting our colleagues through change
There were several changes across the business in 2024 
as part of the acceleration of our plans to transform 
Headlam. 
Whilst there have been many positive opportunities arising 
from these changes, including a move to industry leading 
reward for our sales teams, new roles in many of our 
departments, simplified processes and improved ways of 
working, there have sadly been colleagues who have been 
at risk of redundancy.
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
08
Sustainability Report
In 2024 we consulted with c.230 colleagues across six 
business change projects. As a result of these changes 
c.180 colleagues left the business through redundancy, 
c.20 colleagues resigned before the consultation process 
concluded and we are pleased to say that just over 30 
colleagues were redeployed within the business. Through 
the year we improved the support we give to colleagues 
who are at risk of redundancy and now ensure all at-
risk colleagues have access to outplacement support 
through a third party, can access pensions advice and 
are made fully aware of the comprehensive support we 
have in place for all forms of wellbeing including mental 
and financial. You can find more information about the 
support we provide in the Wellbeing section of this report.
Details of the training and support that we provided to 
leaders to help execute these changes can be found in the 
Learning and Development section of this report.
Colleague Engagement
We are immensely proud of the improvement in our 
colleague engagement score in 2024 which improved by 
5ppts to 72% against a challenging backdrop of business 
change and tough market conditions. This improvement is 
testament to the focus and importance that our leaders 
put on making sure that Headlam is a great place to 
work for everyone. We saw a year-on-year improvement 
against every question asked in the survey.
CEO Open Forums have continued across our sites 
through 2024, offering colleagues from different 
departments and at all levels to hear directly from 
Chris and ask him anything that is on their minds. Chris 
communicates themes arising from these forums to the 
appropriate senior leadership team colleagues and takes 
responsibility for resolving issues.
We held four face-to-face Employee Forums in 2024 and 
four virtual forums. More information about the discussions 
at these forums can be found in the Stakeholder 
Engagement section of this report. Our in-person 
Employee Forums are attended by our CEO and Karen 
Hubbard (Non Executive Director) who reports back to the 
Board on ideas, suggestions and obstacles raised by our 
colleagues.
As part of our ongoing commitment to listening to our 
colleagues and learning from their experience, several 
Area Sales Manager (ASM) forums took place across the 
year providing us with the opportunity to hear our sales 
colleagues’ ideas regarding supporting our customers, 
products, sampling and point of sale materials, training, 
and marketing. A cross functional approach was taken 
to improve our product and service quality with regular 
colleague forums taking place to discuss quality issues and 
suggested improvements including colleagues from our 
warehouses, our drivers, sales office colleagues and ASMs.
Learning and Development
In 2024 we launched our new learning management 
system, Eloomi, which provides colleagues with access 
to over 600 elearning modules, the ability to book on to 
face-to-face training, the creation of playlists, reporting 
capability and a user-friendly way to develop bespoke 
elearning content. Since launching the platform over 1,300 
colleagues have used it to access learning, online content 
has had over 15,000 views and nearly 9,000 online courses 
have been completed. Over 780 people have attended 
the 118 training sessions delivered in 2024.
We also started to deliver our new leadership programme, 
Lead the Way consisting of 2 levels of leadership 
development delivered face to face. Feedback from 
managers was positive across all modules and in our 
engagement survey 89% of our managers said that they 
know what is expected of them to manage their direct 
reports well, which was an improvement of 5ppts year 
on year. More importantly we saw a 7ppt improvement 
on questions relating to how colleagues viewed their 
line manager which put us 7ppts above the industry 
benchmark for leadership.
Managers and leaders continued to benefit from Health 
& Safety training throughout the year with DSS+ delivering 
Felt Leadership training for our senior leaders which covers 
the importance of creating a Safety culture, and See it, 
Say it training for our management teams.
We invested in training for our sales teams by providing 
our Area Sales Managers (ASMs) with Driving Sales Growth 
training, a programme designed to help them to hone 
their selling skills. Our Regional Sales Managers attended 
Delivering Sales Performance to help their ASMs embed 
their training, provide guidance on field observation and 
feedback and to support their coaching skills for 121s, 
appraisals and team meetings.
As part of the acceleration of our strategy through the 
implementation of our Sales Transformation and Network 
rationalisation we provided impacted leaders with training 
to help them to lead through the change process. This 
not only explored their potential reactions to change but 
also how their teams may react and the support they can 
provide to help colleagues to adapt.
To complement our existing Driver, Warehouse and 
Supervisor and Manager apprenticeships we successfully 
launched our first bespoke Headlam apprenticeship for 
our Trade Counter teams, Sales through Service, a level 
2 Customer Service Apprenticeship. This provides our 
Trade Counter Assistants with an opportunity to further 
develop their skills to support their career development 
ambitions. To help bring careers at Headlam to life for all 
our colleagues we have commenced a series of articles on 
our internal communication channel, myHub, highlighting 
career stories of a selection of colleagues as well as “Day 
In The Life Of” articles.
S
 
Social
09
SOCIAL
CONTINUED
Our colleagues continue 
to give both their time and 
Headlam donations to our local 
communities through myHeadlam 
Community. 
This year we have supported charities such 
as Breast Cancer Now and MacMillan with 
coffee mornings, raised money by abseiling 
for Acorns Children’s Hospice and the Aston 
Villa Foundation, run pot noodle drives for the 
Newbury Soup Kitchen and spinathons for the 
local cycling club, donated to excellent causes 
such as Smiling Families, Dementia Connect 
and even sponsoring an elephant sculpture for 
St Giles Hospice March of the Elephant event. 
Our colleagues have also supported several 
local sports teams to enable them to keep their 
local communities connected, fit and healthy 
including Stopsley United FC, Victoria Bowls 
Club, and Boldemere FC.
Case study
Reward
We have continued to invest in colleague reward following 
the great work we had already completed on improving 
sick pay, increasing holidays and introducing a range of new 
benefits over the preceding years. This year we have focused 
on improving colleague benefits and incentives and visibility 
of their own records. We started the year by benchmarking 
our car allowances, and retendered for our company car 
fleet provider which resulted in a new partnership providing a 
broader range of better-quality cars for our colleagues. The 
provider also delivered online driver training and a voluntary 
Electric Vehicle scheme for non-company car drivers.
We have kept a focus on encouraging colleague 
recognition this year and have seen an increase of 32% in 
colleague recognition cards or awards through our central 
My Headlam Heroes scheme. As a result, our colleague 
engagement survey score for the question ‘In the last 12 
months, I have received recognition for doing a great job or 
to celebrate an achievement at work’ increased by 6ppts.
To support our ambition to be a market leading flooring 
sales employer we conducted a full review of our Area Sales 
Managers (ASMs) pay and benefits in advance of the sales 
transformation announcement. This resulted in uplifting ASM 
pay and incentives to create market-leading packages. 
All sales colleagues were also awarded market value share 
options to better align their performance with the interests 
of our shareholders.
Improved visibility of pay and benefits was achieved in 
2024 by launching a new people and payroll system. The 
new system provides colleague and manager self-service 
providing efficiencies to our finance team and better 
reporting capability for the HR team. The new system, which 
is integrated with our new payroll system, has allowed us 
to introduce holiday purchase for the first time as a direct 
result of feedback from our Employee Forum. This went live in 
January 2025.
To read more about our Reward and pay principles please 
refer to our corporate website. 
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
10
Sustainability Report
Wellbeing
Headlam offers a range of wellbeing resources for 
colleagues to access on our colleague communication and 
benefits platform. These include an Employee Assistance 
Programme service which offers a broad range of advice 
and support and unlimited counselling for colleagues. 
Finance wellbeing support has been provided by Salary 
Finance which supports our colleagues with personal 
finance products including savings and loans, resources 
and information; and our support of the Furniture Makers’ 
Company provides our colleagues with access to crisis 
support through their helpline ‘Shout’.
Finally, we continue to train a team of colleagues across 
the UK to provide mental health first aid, which includes a 
partnership with Everymind.
Our engagement survey results demonstrated that our 
efforts to improve wellbeing support to our colleagues 
has continued to be valued with an increase of 3ppts in 
our wellbeing score year on year, taking us to a score of 
76% and 6ppts over the benchmark score for our industry 
comparators (as confirmed by our outsourced colleague 
engagement consultants who administer our survey, 
Workbuzz).
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
We know that diversity brings fresh ideas, different 
ways of thinking and better represents the huge array 
of customers we support and so we remain committed 
to attracting and retaining a diverse workforce by 
creating an inclusive place to work. In 2024 we focused 
on attracting and retaining two of the many groups we 
represent in our workforce; females and colleagues from 
ethnic minorities, however, through all our decision making 
we ensure that we strive to be inclusive to all colleagues.
Diversity in gender
Females make up 24% of the overall workforce at 
Headlam with changes at the most senior levels of 
the business starting to have a positive impact on the 
proportion of women in leadership roles. During 2024, 50% 
of the Executive Committee were female, we had our first 
all-female trade counter team, and we saw an increase 
of 10 ppts of female at middle management levels in an 
industry which is overwhelmingly male dominated. By 
working closely with our recruitment agencies to insist on 
balanced long lists, providing females with the confidence 
to apply for internal opportunities and supporting 
them by ensuring they can access development and by 
showcasing the successful careers that females can have 
in our business we hope to see the number of females in 
Headlam grow. For more information about work we have 
completed and continue to do to encourage gender 
diversity please see our gender pay gap report in which 
we report a Headlam UK mean pay gap of -4.1% and a 
median pay gap of 1.6% on our corporate website.
Diversity in ethnicity
We have a target to get to 10% of colleagues who have 
disclosed themselves to be from an ethnic minority 
group across the business by 2028. We will focus on our 
UK businesses where we know that our local communities 
have an ethnic minority population of approximately 18% 
(based on ONS data).
We started the year by focusing on five key sites: Leeds, 
Ipswich, Coleshill, Scotland and Gildersome where they 
had the headcount, turnover and local demographic 
to be able to make a change over a four year period. 
Focusing on these sites enabled us to provide strong 
support to the management teams, experiment with 
attraction methods on a local level and build the requisite 
community relationships. 
We have met with the hiring managers from Leeds, 
Ipswich and Coleshill who have all been briefed and 
are now underway with unconscious bias eLearning, 
recruitment and selection eLearning, utilising and 
reviewing our current onboarding guide, recruitment 
guide, interview questions & feedback guidelines. In 
2025 we will focus on developing relationships with local 
community partners who support disadvantaged groups 
into employment.
We also have introduced a suite of Diversity and Inclusion 
resources for any colleague to access via our learning 
platform Eloomi.
This year the proportion of ethnic minority colleagues has 
moved from 7% to 7.7%.
Preventing harassment
From October 2024 the Worker Protection (Amendment of 
Equality Act 2010) Bill strengthened existing protection for 
workers against sexual harassment. 
As part of our efforts to meet this obligation we have 
invested in training for every colleague at Headlam in 
the UK to ensure that they understand what constitutes 
harassment (against any of the protected characteristics), 
what they should do if they experience or witness it, and 
Headlam’s likely response. We have selected a team of 
investigators from across the business who have received 
training to ensure that they can competently and 
confidently carry out harassment investigations which 
are inherently more complex than standard disciplinary 
cases. Posters are visible across our offices, distribution 
centres and trade counters to remind everyone that we 
will not tolerate the harassment of/by our colleagues and 
instructions on how to report an incident. Our Inclusion 
and Respect at Work policy has been updated to 
specifically include a section on sexual harassment. Finally, 
we have completed sexual harassment risk assessments 
for the different roles across the organisation to identify 
where we need to focus preventative action. 
S
 
Social
11
SOCIAL
CONTINUED
Public commitments
We have now signed the opening doors campaign led 
by Business in the Community (BITC) to make jobs more 
inclusive. Our commitments are as follows:
•	
Removing bias from interview process (training or 
guidance doc) 
•	
Review where we are advertising jobs to attract a more 
diverse candidate pool
•	
Partner with organisations that support 
disadvantaged groups
•	
Ensure our imagery is diverse 
We are signatories of BITC’s Race at Work charter which 
publicly demonstrates our commitment to improving 
equality of opportunity across Headlam. This Charter has 
seven calls to action for businesses, many of which we are 
working towards.
Finally, Headlam are represented on two of the BITC 
Regional Boards, East Midlands and Yorkshire & Humber.
Community
Through making use of the BITC community needs analysis, 
we have identified which groups in the local community 
most need support. This provided us with insight into Bulwell, 
which is local to our Nottingham site and last year we 
reported on the partnerships we developed with Bulwell 
Academy and Bulwell Forest Gardens. These relationships 
have continued and in 2024 our Nottingham team, suppliers 
and customers donated over 100 Easter eggs to the children 
that visit the centre. Through donations we have made in 
2024 we have also been able to fund a weekly forest school 
session throughout 2025.
This year we have extended the Community Needs analysis 
to Leeds which identified that we can have the biggest 
impact in Leeds through providing training and employment 
opportunities. As a result, we will have piloted our Trainee 
Fitter programme in Leeds. This programme looks to address 
the lack of training within the area, whilst also supporting the 
sustainability of the flooring industry, which has a reducing 
population of trained flooring fitters. We have created a 
6-month training programme in partnership with 7 of our 
suppliers. The training programme gives the trainees a fully 
rounded experience of all aspects of floor laying. During the 
programme the fitters will support various local community 
projects to hone their skills and demonstrate competency 
to their assessors. At the end of this programme, we will 
help trainees to find jobs with our customers. This is a great 
example of the flooring industry pulling together to support 
local communities and improve the sustainability of the 
industry.
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
12
Sustainability Report
Our commitment
Leading on sustainability and environmental responsibility 
and Making Headlam a Great Place to Work for everyone 
are two of the five pillars of our strategy see the Annual 
Report pages 18 to 21 and as such we set targets annually 
to ensure continuous improvement to achieve these 
ambitions. The governance we have in place to track 
progress against these actions are hard wired into many of 
our ways of working, standard reporting and meetings to 
provide leadership and management with an opportunity 
to share latest performance, further actions they are 
taking, risks and issues which may have arisen, and any 
support required.
Ensuring that colleagues know what is expected of them 
will always be a key focus for the leadership team at 
Headlam, and we have a variety of ways in which we 
assure this. Our Colleague Code of Ethics, workplace 
policies and standard operating procedures are reviewed 
regularly and are made available to all our colleagues 
through our intranet and communications portal. 
We hold regular briefings with colleagues at all levels 
including monthly leadership briefings, management 
communications, team meetings and toolbox talks.
These communications not only provide an opportunity 
to remind colleagues of our policies and ways of working 
but also ensure that they are aware of their key priorities, 
how these priorities help us to achieve the business 
strategy and provide them with an insight into how they 
are progressing. 
Karen Hubbard,
Non-Executive Director
	“ In today’s business 
landscape, ESG 
governance is not just 
a responsibility – it’s 
an opportunity. By 
embedding environmental, 
social, and governance 
principles into our core 
strategies, we ensure 
long-term resilience, 
drive meaningful impact, 
and build trust with all 
our stakeholders.”
G
 
Governance
13
GOVERNANCE
This is further supported by the opportunity to set 
objectives and review them through the check in process. 
Formal meetings such as Board meetings, Executive 
Performance Reviews, Commercial Performance Reviews, 
Audit and ESG Committee meetings provide high level 
oversight of what has been achieved, how it has been 
achieved and proposed actions. 
ESG Committee 
We have an established ESG Committee at Headlam 
to assist the Board of Directors in providing oversight 
with respect to the ongoing development and delivery 
of the ESG strategy. The Committee is chaired by the 
Chief Executive and has one of the Non-Executive 
Directors in attendance along with the Chief People and 
Sustainability Officer, the Chief Customer Officer and 
several senior leaders, including our ESG Director. A copy 
of the ESG Committee terms of reference can be found 
on the corporate website. In 2024, the Committee met 
on four occasions and discussed every aspect of the ESG 
strategy including Health & Safety, decarbonisation, waste 
management, the take-back scheme, sustainable product 
development, ongoing ethical sourcing audits and raw 
material traceability checks by recognised independent 
third party bodies, quality and service, fleet innovation, 
inclusion and wellbeing, policy changes, regulatory horizon 
scanning, packaging, colleague development, colleague 
engagement and community.
Executive Accountability 
To ensure appropriate Executive focus on ESG, the Board 
ensures that ESG targets are included in both the Annual 
Bonus Scheme and the Performance Share Plan for 
Executive Directors and members of the Executive Team. 
Details of the Annual Bonus Scheme objectives for 2024 
and the Performance Share Plan targets for all in-flight 
schemes can be found the in the Remuneration Report of 
the 2024 Annual Report and Accounts.
Progress against all ESG targets are presented through 
the ESG Committee. Key environmental, community 
and people initiatives are reviewed at monthly Executive 
Performance Review meetings and service, quality 
and compliance updates are provided through the 
Commercial Review Progress meetings on a monthly basis, 
or when required, at the weekly Executive meetings.
Sourcing
Our responsible sourcing programme continues to 
strengthen with our supplier onboarding process as the 
foundation, before a supplier can trade with the Group 
they must complete our due diligence assessment, which 
includes completing a comprehensive questionnaire, 
reading and signing up to our supply chain values through 
our supplier code of conduct and sustainability charter. 
If required any risks associated with human rights, health & 
safety, environment or business ethics must be addressed 
before we award any business or commence mass 
production.
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
14
Sustainability Report
We remain members of SEDEX and require all suppliers 
manufacturing products under a Headlam brand to 
undergo an independent audit, every two years, using the 
SMETA format, covering human rights, health & safety, 
environment & business ethics. 
We are looking to further strengthen our processes in 
2025 by working collaboratively with our suppliers to build 
a more circular supply chain, taking more accountability 
for material recovery, raw material selection and use; 
and looking at innovative solutions to further reduce our 
impact on the environment.
Timber remains an important commodity to the Group 
and we will continue to ensure all our supply chains are not 
causing any form of deforestation or degradation by working 
with manufacturers and verifying through independent 
specialist organisations. Our Domus business continue to 
maintain their FSC Certification and we only work with 
suppliers that can provide certified timber material.
Quality
Supplier Management
Quality is an essential part of our values and we demand 
that all our suppliers deliver to our agreed standards. All 
products sold under a Headlam brand must be compliant 
with all applicable UK and EU regulations, fit for purpose 
and perform as described. Our quality management 
team are continually reviewing customer feedback to 
ensure our brands are meeting their expectations. Any 
supplier or product that falls below our acceptable quality 
limits (AQL) undergoes an immediate quality review to 
understand the root cause of why our standards have not 
been achieved supported by a corrective action plan.
Operations
During 2024 we focused on our operations to ensure our 
customers are receiving their orders on time, in full and 
free from damage. Working alongside our customer 
support team and using our customer feedback our 
central operations team have implemented a number of 
key improvements to ensure our customers continue to 
receive the best and most reliable service available.
Speak Up (Whistleblowing)
In the event that colleagues are not complying with our 
Code of Ethics, and the formal mechanisms have failed 
to alert us to this, we have a Speak Up policy which is 
well publicised in sites and through our policies. There are 
two ways in which colleagues can raise a whistleblowing 
concern; through a Speak Up email account or through a 
third party confidential reporting service. 
Either way, the Chief People & Sustainability Officer, 
Head of Business Partnering and Employee Relations, 
Company Secretary, Director of Group Finance, Head of 
Internal Audit and one of our Non-Executive Directors 
(our Audit Chair) are made immediately aware of any 
concerns raised and will follow the concern through the 
investigation stage to its conclusion. Concerns raised 
in this way, and the outcome of the investigations, are 
reported to the Board.
Improved support for colleagues
We have implemented a number of improvements, as 
reported elsewhere in this report, including:
•	
New learning management system (Eloomi)
•	
Safety Culture system
•	
New HR and payroll system
Policies and Process
The following ESG and People policies have been revised 
and updated in 2024: Environmental Policy, Inclusion and 
Respect in the Workplace and the Human Rights Policy. 
These policies are available on the Headlam corporate 
website. 
Project and Programme Governance
In 2024 we had two major programmes running at 
Headlam in the UK; Project Fusion, the acceleration of 
our strategy and Project Nexus, the implementation 
of our new ERP system. To ensure ESG remained a key 
consideration through both projects the Chief People and 
Sustainability Officer sat on the steering committee for 
both programmes and the ESG Director was consulted 
and engaged through workshops or weekly updates. Both 
programmes provide us with an opportunity to fast track 
many of the plans across the ESG strategy by through new 
buildings, new processes, improved reporting, and new 
ways of working internally or with suppliers and customers.
Stakeholder engagement 
In 2024, we continued to maintain engagement on ESG 
with the broader industry through Carpets Recycling UK, 
our suppliers, and industry bodies. During our supplier 
conference in September, we presented progress on our 
Take-back trial and how we could work together with 
our suppliers to ensure that we are sourcing recyclable 
and recycled products. We have also held meetings with 
a number of suppliers across the year to discuss product 
innovation and how they can support future Take-back 
efforts.
We also put an emphasis on engaging our colleagues 
through our Employee Forums, where we discussed sharing 
best practice on Health & Safety, colleague engagement, 
quality improvements, and discussed changes to 
our reward offer resulting in the implementation of a 
holiday purchase scheme. Our Quality improvement 
group, facilitated by our operations team, has brought 
colleagues from right across the business and at all levels 
to find ways to improve the quality of the products being 
delivered to our customers. This has led to several process 
improvements and changes in packaging design.
Our greatest insight into the views of our customers 
regarding ESG is our colleagues. We have worked hard this 
year to ensure that, as well as the views of our customers 
being fed up through colleagues reporting lines, we 
create forums for colleagues to share insights directly with 
decision makers. Examples of these opportunities include 
ASM forums, Quality Improvement Forums, Open Forums 
and Employee Forums. 
G
 
Governance
15
GOVERNANCE
We also survey our customers at least once a year and 
use this insight to create actions to improve performance. 
Interestingly, whilst our customers’ perception of how 
environmentally friendly we are increased in 2024, the 
importance they give to this attribution is still very low. 
25% of customer survey respondents say that their own 
customers are enquiring about sustainable products with 
the top three enquiries regarding: Products made from 
recycled materials, products made from sustainable 
materials and products that are/could be recycled at end 
of life. This feedback is passed on to our central buying 
team to inform range selection.
Our shareholders have the benefit of reviewing our 
progress on sustainability across the business each year 
through this report which is included in our annual report 
and accounts available online and in hard copy (for 
those who have requested hard copies). The Company’s 
position and progress across various sustainability areas is 
reviewed and rated by various ESG rating agencies which 
is available online for shareholders to review. 
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
16
Sustainability Report
The table below, and continuing on pages 18 to 21 details the Group’s responses consistent with the TCFD recommendations 
and pillars. 
The Group has considered and taken into account the TCFD all-sector guidance and supplemental guidance for financial and 
non-financial companies and believes it to be consistent with them. 
This TCFD disclosure forms part of the Group’s overall Sustainability Report. It should be read as part of the full report which 
includes the Group’s key decarbonisation actions to reach Net Zero and reduce its contribution to climate change, together 
with KPIs and targets to measure progress.
Governance
Disclosure
The Board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities
The Board has primary oversight and ultimate responsibility for ESG strategy and 
performance, which includes the approach and actions in relation to climate-related 
issues. ESG is considered regularly as part of the Board programme of business, with 
ESG policy and strategy considered in depth on an annual basis. An Executive ESG 
Committee assists the Board with the more detailed aspects of its ESG agenda and 
holds management to account on the implementation of the ESG strategy approved 
by the Board. The Committee’s terms of reference are publicly available on the Group’s 
website, with the Chief Executive the Chair of the Committee.
Whilst ultimate responsibility for risk governance sits with the Board, the Audit 
Committee assists in risk oversight (as described within Risk Management on page [63]. 
The Group’s most material ESG issues are included in the Group’s Risk Register. During 
2024, these material issues were reported to the Audit Committee by the Executive Risk 
Committee (detailed below) and discussed at each of their quarterly meetings, with 
management’s approach to mitigating risk and capturing opportunity challenged 
appropriately.
Management’s role in 
assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities
As above, the Group has an Executive ESG Committee, which, as part of its remit, 
focuses on decarbonisation actions and reducing the Group’s contribution to climate 
change. The Group also has an established Executive Risk Committee, which meets 
quarterly and comprises the Chief Financial Officer, members of the Executive Team, 
senior managers and heads of department (including from operations and finance). 
Its role is to review identified risks, including the likelihood and potential impact of each 
risk, establishing and monitoring the effectiveness of mitigating and opportunistic 
actions, and considering emerging risk. The Group’s most material ESG issues per the 
Materiality Assessment Map published on the Group’s website are included in the 
Group’s Risk Register, which forms the basis for Committee discussions. Materiality for 
climate-related risks and opportunities is assessed with reference to that used for 
mainstream reporting but also considers the key risks being assessed by management 
to inform current and future strategy along with internal feedback.
The Group employs an ESG Team, reporting into the Chief People Officer and led by 
the ESG Director. Its principal activity is the day-to-day management and delivery of 
projects in relation to the Group’s ESG strategy, with projects to both mitigate climate 
risk and capture opportunity. The projects related to decarbonisation and reducing 
contribution to climate change are given on page [40] of the Sustainability Report. 
Outputs are tracked through the ESG Committee and major projects are reviewed by 
the Chief Executive.
17
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (‘TCFD’)
Governance
Disclosure
The organisation’s processes 
for identifying and assessing 
climate-related risks
The Group’s risk governance and management processes are detailed within Risk 
Management on page 63 of the Annual Report and Accounts. Its preparation includes 
a quantitative assessment of ESG risks, inclusive of climate-related, on the composite 
bases of likelihood and potential impact of ‘raw’ risk. Risks considered include Transition 
Risks, such as market, policy and legal (both existing and emerging), technology, and 
reputation, and Physical Risks (both acute and chronic). This process has allowed the 
Group to both identify climate-related risks and opportunities and determine their 
relative significance to the business.
How processes for identifying, 
assessing and managing 
climate-related risks 
are integrated into the 
organisation’s overall risk 
management
Climate-related risks are considered as part of the ESG Strategy and ‘Environmental’ 
Principal Risk and, therefore, integrated into the Group’s overall risk management 
process. Additionally, through preparation of the Group’s annually reviewed and publicly 
disclosed Environmental Policy and TCFD disclosure, the Group gives full consideration 
and commentary on climate-related factors. 
The climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation 
has identified over the short, 
medium and long term
The impact of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the 
organisation’s business(es), 
strategy and financial planning
The organisation’s processes 
for managing climate-related 
risks
The Group has identified its climate-related risks and opportunities, and assessed 
strategy resilience, through quantitative scenario analysis. The range of possible 
risks and opportunities were analysed under two future climate forecasts. Both 
Physical and Transition Risks were considered, modelled around the widely recognised 
Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) and Shared Socio-economic Pathways 
(SSPs). The scenarios chosen were: global warming of 2ºC (RCP 3.4), considered the 
most likely scenario; and global warming of 4ºC (RCP 8.5), considered a resilience 
scenario. Time horizons have been chosen that best reflect the Group’s business plan, 
strategy, and various financial accounting policies. The total time horizon considered 
is up to 2050, split into short term (three years, 2025–2027), medium term (2028–2035) 
and long term (2036–2050). The assumptions used in the scenario analysis, with 
reference to Extended Producer Responsibility impact and the transition to a more 
sustainable fleet, are also discussed in note 11 to the Financial Statements.
Factors
Middle of the road
Fossil-fuelled growth
RCP
3.4
8.5
SSP
2
5
Temperature rise
2ºC
4ºC
Likelihood
High
Moderate
Societal response
Proactive, Disorderly
Reactive
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
18
Sustainability Report
The quantitative assessment below considered the likelihood and estimated financial impact of each climate-related risk, 
before the impact of mitigating actions.
Category
Risk
Key assumptions
Scenario 1 (Transition): Average global temperatures rising by 2ºC above pre-industrial levels by 2100
Policy and 
Legal: 
Financial 
impact of 
potential new 
legislation/
regulation 
(including 
product 
legislation) 
Risk: Increased operating 
costs through Extended 
Producer Responsibility (EPR) 
for bulky waste
The EPR (bulky waste) legislation is assumed to come into effect in 2027, which 
essentially introduces an extra tax on the sale of residential floorcoverings for 
companies considered to be manufacturer or first point of contact in the UK 
for imported items. The rates used in the scenario modelling are consistent with 
current industry best estimates, which are uncertain whilst the legislation is 
under consultation. The scenario modelling assumes that the take-back scheme, 
currently being trialled, is rolled out across the network. In the long term, all of the 
EPR costs are forecast to be mitigated by offsetting collected waste against the 
tax. The modelling does not currently assume that any residual EPR costs in the 
short or medium term are passed on to customers, which is considered prudent 
given industry practice of passing through cost inflation to customers.
Market: 
Transitioning 
to more 
sustainable 
business and 
operating 
practices
Risk: Increased costs of 
operating a sustainable 
fleet with low-carbon 
technologies
The technology for zero-emission long-haul, heavy goods vehicles (HGVs) is less 
developed than for non-commercial (including company cars) and short-haul 
commercial vehicles. The Group operates around 300 HGVs and is monitoring the 
development of both electric and hydrogen powered HGVs.
There is a high degree of uncertainty in the cost estimates for a zero emission 
HGV fleet. Current forecasts show that the total cost of ownership of electric 
HGVs are likely to be higher than diesel HGVs due to the high initial purchase 
price. However, the Group will monitor how the initial cost of electric HGVs 
changes as improvements in powertrains and energy storage are developed.
It has been assumed, for this scenario modelling, that the cost of operating a 
zero emission HGV fleet is broadly comparable to that of operating a diesel fleet. 
This assumption is on the basis that there is a very large global market for HGVs, 
which provides commercial incentive for companies to develop a viable, cost-
effective zero emission solution for HGVs. There could also be subsidies provided 
by governments to incentivise the transition to zero emission HGVs. 
Market: 
Changing 
consumer 
preferences
Risk: Reduced demand for 
current product offering
The scenario modelling assumes a shift away from non-sustainable to more 
sustainable flooring at a rate of 0.5% of mix per year, settling in the medium term, 
with an associated gross profit reduction.
Scenario 2 (Physical): Average global temperatures rising by 4ºC above pre-industrial levels by 2100
Acute: Asset 
damage
Risk: Business interruption 
and loss of revenue following 
damage to distribution 
network as a result of 
extreme weather event; 
consequential impairment 
of assets and increased 
insurance premiums
A weather event, likely to be a flooding event, is assumed to occur in the long 
term. Only a small number of the geographically dispersed sites are considered 
to have a high risk of flooding. Following the acceleration of the network 
optimisation strategy, including the disposal of the Ipswich and Uddingston 
distribution centres, there are no sites, which if affected, would give rise to a 
material profit impact.
Chronic 
and Acute: 
Supply chain 
disruption
Risk: Potential raw material 
shortages and knock-
on impact on product 
availability from supply 
chain disruption leading to 
loss of revenue
The scenario modelling assumes there is no loss of revenue from this risk due 
to the comprehensive inventory and homogeneous products held and sold 
by the Group.
19
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (‘TCFD’)
CONTINUED
Average potential financial impact on  
annual profit £M
Short Term 
(2025–2027)
Medium Term 
(2028–2035)
Long Term 
(2036–2050)
Strategic response and resilience
(2.2)
(3.2)
–
Collaborate with suppliers on new sustainable product launches.
Roll-out the take-back scheme to maximise recycling opportunities 
and avoid materials entering into the waste stream with a view to 
offsetting EPR costs.
It is likely that all, or significantly all, of any residual EPR costs (after 
offsetting Take-back scheme waste) could be indirectly passed on to 
customers, reducing the potential financial impact to an immaterial 
amount.
–
–
–
Network optimisation will increase transport efficiency.
Ongoing trials of electric commercial vehicles. 
(0.5)
(2.5)
(2.5)
Due to leading position, the Group is well placed to develop its range 
of flooring solutions to quickly adapt its offering to reflect consumer 
preferences and, therefore, mitigate all or significantly all of this risk, 
reducing the potential financial impact to an immaterial amount.
–
–
–
The Group’s assets are not expected to be exposed to high physical 
climate-related risk due to the geographies in which it operates. 
Operations are disaggregated with business continuity plans in place if 
specific sites are affected by isolated events.
–
–
–
Market-leading position and strategic partnerships with suppliers 
should enable the Group to preserve levels of availability. 
Comprehensive inventory levels, typically, maintained at any one time 
providing strong availability.
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
20
Sustainability Report
Strategy and 
Risk Management
Disclosure
Resilience of the 
organisation’s 
strategy, taking 
into consideration 
different climate-
related scenarios
The analysis suggests that EPR and reduced demand for current product offering could have the 
most significant impact on the Group’s profits in the transition scenario. EPR would only have a 
significant impact if any residual costs, not mitigated by the Take-back scheme, were not passed 
on to customers, which is considered unlikely. There is a high degree of uncertainty around the 
cost of transitioning to a zero emission HGV fleet.
There could be further market opportunities for the Group to increase revenue with its peer-
leading sustainable practices helping to attract new larger customers and by capturing market 
share by responding to a shift towards sustainable products more quickly than competitors. 
These opportunities are not included in the quantitative scenario modelling.
In the physical scenario, the analysis suggests that there would not be a significant impact on 
the business.
There are a number of strategic responses that the Group could and is already taking against 
these risks, as noted above. When taking into account the judged severity of the potential risks, 
time horizons and mitigating actions, the Group is currently considered to remain a resilient 
business in both scenarios modelled above. Overall, the business model is deemed fit for purpose, 
with strategic aims in place to leverage the opportunities from its ESG strategy.
Metrics and Targets
Disclosure
Metrics used by the 
organisation to assess 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities
The Group uses the below KPIs and targets to both assess the risks and opportunities as well as 
its progress in relation to its overall ESG Strategy.
KPI
•	
Energy usage (per SECR disclosure)
•	
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (year on year)
•	
Achieving reduction pathway required for Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions to achieve interim target
•	
Number of sustainable own brand product launches
•	
ESG-related capital investment
•	
ESG rating agency scores
•	
Physical asset damaged related insurance claims/premiums
Target
•	
100% of non-commercial fleet electric/low emission by 2025
•	
Interim emissions target (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 
•	
Net Zero emissions target (Scope 1, 2 and 3)
An intensity metric is additionally given within the Group’s SECR Disclosure on page 22.
An ESG metric has been introduced into Executive Director and Executive Team performance-
related variable remuneration.
Link to Risks
9
Link to KPIs
10   11
Scope 1, Scope 2 and 
Scope 3 greenhouse 
(‘GHG’) emissions, 
and the related risks
The Group’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are summarised on pages 23 to 24 of the Sustainability 
Report.
Targets used by 
the organisation to 
manage climate-
related risks and 
opportunities and 
performance against 
targets
The Group’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 targets are aligned and set to be net zero by 2040. 
The Group has an interim Scope 1 and 2 target for a 46% reduction against the 2019  
baseline by 2030.
The Group also has an interim Scope 3 target for a 42% reduction against the 2023  
baseline by 2032.
21
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (‘TCFD’)
CONTINUED
Overall UK Carbon Intensity
This SECR disclosure forms part of the Company’s overall 
Sustainability Report, and should be read as part of the  
full report.
This disclosure along with the full report summarises 
the Company’s energy usage, associated emissions, 
energy efficiency actions being undertaken and energy 
performance under the government policy Streamlined 
Energy and Carbon Reporting (‘SECR’), as implemented 
by the Companies (Directors’ Report) and Limited Liability 
Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018. 
This disclosure also summarises the methodologies utilised 
for all calculations related to the elements reported under 
Energy and Carbon, and includes intensity metrics. With 
the energy efficiency actions detailed in the full report, this 
disclosure fully complies with the reporting regulations under 
the new SECR legislation.
This disclosure, and full supporting documentation, has been 
prepared by Net Zero Compliance (a division of Inspired 
Energy PLC) in conjunction with members of Headlam’s 
Executive Team for Headlam Group PLC by means of 
interpreting the Companies (Directors’ Report) and 
Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) 
Regulations 2018 as they apply to information supplied by 
Headlam Group PLC and its energy suppliers. 
The following figures demonstrate year-on-year changes 
in consumption and resulting emissions for Headlam Group 
PLC for 2024 and 2023. Headlam Group PLC has chosen to 
disclose its consumption and emissions data for its global 
operations, in addition to mandatory UK consumption and 
emissions data.
Definitions of the Scopes used in this disclosure:
•	
Scope 1 consumption and emissions include direct 
combustion of natural gas, and fuels utilised for 
transportation, for example, company vehicle fleets.
•	
Scope 2 consumption and emissions cover indirect 
emissions related to the consumption of purchased 
electricity in day-to-day business operations, and 
electricity consumed in vehicles such as EVs and PHEVs.
•	
Scope 3 consumption and emissions cover emissions 
resulting from sources not directly owned by Headlam 
Group PLC, which relates to grey fleet business travel 
undertaken in employee-owned vehicles only.
UK Overview
UK Carbon and Consumption £m = £m Revenue
UK Carbon Intensity Metric £m = £m Revenue
29.41 tCO2e per £m turnover
YOY +16.45%
14,602.02 tCO2e
tCO2e YOY +8.01%
Natural Gas
4,270,355 kWh
781.05 tCO2e
tCO2e YOY: -15.52%
1.56 tCO2e per £m
YOY: -5.71%
Electricity
5,330,844 kWh
1,103.75 tCO2e
tCO2e YOY: -18.01%
1.99 tCO2e per £m
YOY: -8.98%
Transport
57,389,580 kWh
13,573.45 tCO2e
tCO2e YOY: +10.27%
24.48 tCO2e per £m
YOY: +22.30%
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
22
Sustainability Report
STREAMLINED ENERGY AND  
CARBON REPORTING (‘SECR’)
Consumption (kWh) and Greenhouse Gas emissions (tCO2e) Totals
The following tables show the consumption and associated emissions for financial years ending December 2024 and 
December 2023 for all operations.
Headlam have chosen to disclose its consumption and emissions data for the group’s global operations, in addition to 
mandatory UK consumption and emissions data. 
UK Totals 
The total Energy Consumption (kWh) figures for reportable UK-based energy supplies are outlined below: 
Utility and Scope
2024 
Consumption 
kWh
2023 
Consumption 
kWh
Grid-Supplied Electricity (Scope 2)
5,330,844
6,501,459
Gaseous and other fuels (Scope 1)
4,270,355
5,054,342
Transportation (Scope 1)
56,919,467
50,755,600
Transportation (Scope 2)
126,675
886,117
Transportation (Scope 3)
343,438
153,078
Total
66,990,779
63,350,597
The total emission (tCO2e) figures for reportable UK-based energy supplies are outlined below.
Utility and Scope
2024 
Consumption 
tCO2e
2023 
Consumption 
tCO2e
Grid-Supplied Electricity (Scope 2)
1,103.75
1,346.28
Gaseous and other fuels (Scope 1)
781.05
924.59
Transportation (Scope 1)
13,470.67
12,066.80
Transportation (Scope 2)
 26.23
207.98
Transportation (Scope 3)
76.55
34.43
Total
15,458.25
14,580.07
UK Intensity Metric
An intensity metric of tCO2e per £m has been applied for our annual total emissions. The methodology of the intensity metric 
calculations is detailed in the appendix, and the results of this analysis are as follows:
Intensity Metric
2024 
Intensity 
Metric
2023 
Intensity 
Metric
tCO2e/£m UK Revenue
29.41
25.25
23
STREAMLINED ENERGY AND  
CARBON REPORTING (‘SECR’)
CONTINUED
Continental European Totals
Headlam Group PLC have sites that they are responsible for in France and in the Netherlands. The consumption and emission 
figures for these are shown below:
France Totals
Utility and Scope
2024 
Consumption 
kWh
2024 
Consumption 
tCO2e
Grid-Supplied Electricity (Scope 2)
437,618
13.48
Gaseous and other fuels (Scope 1)
508,697
93.04
Transportation (Scope 1)
1,932,301
436.91
Total
2,878,616
543.43
Netherlands Totals
Utility and Scope
2024 
Consumption 
kWh
2024 
Consumption 
tCO2e
Grid-Supplied Electricity (Scope 2)
255,345
61.68
Gaseous and other fuels (Scope 1)
271,218
49.61
Transportation (Scope 1)
2,185,113
507.46
Total
2,711,676
618.75
UK and European Totals
Utility and Scope
2024 
Consumption 
kWh
2024 
Consumption 
tCO2e
Grid-Supplied Electricity (Scope 2)
6,023,807
1,178.92
Gaseous and other fuels (Scope 1)
5,050,270
923.69
Transportation (Scope 1)
61,036,882
14,415.04
Transportation (Scope 2)
126,675
26.23
Transportation (Scope 3)
343,438
76.55
Total
72,581,072
16,620.43
UK and European Intensity Metric
An intensity metric of tCO2e per £m has been applied for our annual total emissions. The methodology of the intensity metric 
calculations is detailed in the appendix, and the results of this analysis are as follows:
Intensity Metric
2024 
Intensity 
Metric
tCO2e / £m Group Revenue
28.02
Headlam Group PLC March 2025
24
Sustainability Report
Headlam is committed to year-on-year improvements in its 
operational energy efficiency. A register of energy efficiency 
measures has been compiled, with a view to implementing 
these measures in the next five years.
Energy efficiency actions
All leased sites for new trade counters have been retrofitted 
with best-rated energy efficiency measures. This has 
been done in an attempt to remove outdated inefficient 
hardware at these sites to reduce consumption.
Solar panel installation
Introduced solar panels and power management efficiency 
in Coleshill Distribution centre. This site is a significant 
distribution centre for the company and has a very high 
surface area for solar panels, reducing the site’s reliance 
upon the national grid for electricity. Efforts will be made in 
2025 to record generation data from these solar panels.
Company car fleet electrification 
All new company car purchases are now either plug-in 
hybrid or battery-electric vehicles. Fossil fuel-consuming 
vehicles will gradually be phased out and retired during the 
transition process towards a fully electric fleet. 
Measures to be addressed in 2025
Closure and rationalisation of distribution network
Headlam plans to consolidate its operations into single sites 
from multiple sites. This will streamline the overall operational 
footprint and result in a reduction in unnecessary energy 
wastage from a wider network of sites.
Energy behaviours workshops
Company-wide training on best practices to reduce energy 
consumption and use of energy efficiency measures are 
set to take place during 2025. These workshops aim to 
guide employees in their day-to-day activities to be more 
conscious of energy being consumed and mitigate some of 
this excess consumption. 
Year-on-year changes
Gas and electricity emissions have reduced as there has 
been less estimation year-on-year. Since 2023, there has 
been a 95% reduction in estimated consumption, which 
has resulted in higher data accuracy and, as a result, lower 
consumption.
The key reason for the large increases in transport emissions 
has been driven by a 6% increase in litres consumed by 
diesel-fuelled company cars and fleet vehicles.
The total intensity metric has increased due to a 10% 
reduction in total revenue (£m) and increased transport 
emissions.
Total Group Revenue (£m)
£593.1m
Total UK Revenue (£m)
£525.7m
Total Continental Europe Revenue (£m)
£67.4m 
25
STREAMLINED ENERGY AND  
CARBON REPORTING (‘SECR’)
CONTINUED
HEADLAM GROUP PLC 
Gorsey Lane 
Coleshill 
Birmingham 
B46 1JU
UK
T: 01675 433 000 
E: headlamgroup@headlam.com 
S N: B46 1JU
www.headlam.com
Company number: 00460129
